In this challenge, groups of four to six people are given
15 minutes to build the tallest possible tower with a marshmallow on top.
Their supplies: 20 sticks of spaghetti,
one yard of tape,
one yard of string,
and a single marshmallow.
In one version of the experiment,
which has since been replicated many times,
the first day of testing challenge groups of preschool students.
On the second day, the groups were made of graduate students from a business school.
The business school students spent the first 10 of
their 15 minutes deciding how to build the tower.
They discussed and debated the various methods before deciding as a group how to proceed,
they spent the rest of the five-minutes building the tower with no time for another try.
In a sense, they designed and then launched with no Iterative testing.
The preschool children, however immediately began
sticking the marshmallow on the spaghetti to try to build a tower.
By attempting to build the tower and testing the actual design,
the preschoolers got ideas about what would and wouldn't work in
marshmallow spaghetti tape physics because the preschoolers
repeatedly tested their design and got new ideas on what was working.
The teams of preschoolers ended up building much taller towers than
the Business School students who hadn't embraced an iterative cycle of design.
Data allows product managers to make better products because
the use of data can help identify areas for product improvement.
Iterative use of that data also ensures that
product managers waste fewer resources because
iterative design results in product managers testing
potential changes before committing a large amount of work to a potentially bad idea.
If you ever wonder why iterative design is important to data product managers,
just remember that business school students with
decades of education couldn't build a tower
taller than the towers preschoolers built when they
leveraged the power of the cycle of iterative design.